Bitcoin: what is it and why is it important?
Bitcoin is a currency born into the digital age. When using Bitcoin for the first time people should get an idea of how it works. Digital money is different than the traditional finance world is used to. It offers three core values in which many currencies cannot attain: Decentralization, Open Source, and Peer-to-Peer networking. It is important to get an idea of how to use Bitcoin before investing in it or opening a wallet. At Bitcoin.com we are very passionate about the protocol and want to help you learn along the way. There is a lot to learn, but it is not beyond your grasp. Bitcoin is a truly beautiful innovation, and it has the capacity to change the world.

Who developed bitcoin?
The original Bitcoin code was designed by Satoshi Nakamoto under MIT open source license. In 2008 Nakamoto outlined the idea behind Bitcoin in his white paper, which scientifically described how the cryptocurrency would function. Bitcoin is the first successful digital currency designed with trust in cryptography over central authorities. Satoshi left the Bitcoin code in the hands of developers and the community in 2010. Thus far hundreds of developers have added to the open source code throughout the years.

What is the blockchain?
Bitcoin is dependent on the blockchain that underlies and structures the system. The blockchain is the vertebrae of the protocol and the glue that holds the network together. It is simply a vast, distributed public ledger of account. It keeps track of every transaction ever made in the network, and all transactions are timestamped and verified by network miners. This is how it works: miners with specialized computers compete to solve mathematical puzzles with other computers, and once they solve a puzzle they are awarded with some Bitcoin, and they also add a “block” of completed transactions to the blockchain for future viewing and verifiability. Once a block is added to the chain the cycle repeats itself, and the computers continue to compete to solve these difficult problems. Every transaction on the blockchain is completely transparent and accounted for in its log. Anyone can see the public keys of any transaction they want (although there are no names associated with transactions). One could go all the way back and view the very first transactions ever made on the first block ever created; this block was called the Genesis Block.

What is double spending?
Double-Spending is the act of using the same bitcoins twice. There is only a 21 million set limit on the protocol and no more can be produced. So the network protects against double spend by the verification of each recorded transaction. The blockchain ledger ensures that the transactions are finalized by its inputs confirmed by miners. The confirmations make each unique Bitcoin and its subsequent transactions legitimate. If one tried to duplicate a transaction the original blocks deterministic functions would change showing the network that it is counterfeit and would not to be accepted.

How is the blockchain different from banking ledgers? Why bother with bitcoin?
That’s the million dollar question, and there’s probably a ton of answers you could give yourself. Are you fascinated by money and technology? Do you want to push the boundaries of money itself and participate in one of the biggest economic experiments of the past century?

At some point you’ll hear people say “Bitcoin is great, but you’ll never use it to buy your coffee every morning”. It’s a sign they haven’t really sat down to think about what money is, or how different people around the world use it. In fact, people are already using Bitcoin to buy their morning coffee and merchants are using it to accept Bitcoin daily.

Are you unserved or underserved by the current international banking system because you or your family live in an emerging economy, or freelance for clients overseas? Are you under 18, or work in an industry the credit card companies or PayPal don’t approve of? Have you ever had an account frozen for some random irregularity, or had to pay over $20 in international money transfer fees just to send your funds to a friend or loved one? Bitcoin is the perfect solution to all of those issues.

If you’re a merchant – either online or brick-and-mortar – accepting Bitcoin is faster and cheaper than credit cards, and all payments are final. Fees are lower and there’s no risk of fraudulent chargebacks.

Perhaps you think the value of Bitcoin will increase in future and want to invest in it. Or maybe you’ve been reading about the existing fiat currency/central banking and international financial system, realize something’s not quite right with it and want to place control of your money back in your own hands. Bitcoin allows you to do this.

What is bitcoin mining?

Bitcoin mining is analogous to the mining of gold, but its digital form. The process involves specialized computers solving algorithmic equations or hash functions. These problems help miners to confirm blocks of transactions held within the network. Bitcoin mining provides a reward for miners by paying out in Bitcoin in turn the miners confirm transactions on the blockchain. Miners introduce new Bitcoin into the network and also secure the system with transaction confirmation. They are also rewarded network fees for when they harvest new coin and a time when the last bitcoin is found mining will continue.

How can you buy bitcoin?
Bitcoins can be bought from various sources. You can purchase them online using an exchange or brokerage service that will enable you to buy Bitcoin with a bank transfer using fiat currency, a credit card, and some services also offer buying opportunities using Paypal. Bitcoin Cash can be purchased locally using Local Bitcoin, and from Bitcoin Teller Machines which are similar to cash ATMs that you find worldwide.

Bitcoin.com has a list of current online exchanges and brokers who sell bitcoins. You can also buy Bitcoins instantly using your credit/debit card or bank transfer on Bitcoin.com. Our aim is to provide the best quality services via our website so anyone can easily obtain the cryptocurrency from a wide array of Bitcoin buying/selling platforms.

Can you sell bitcoin?
Yes. Bitcoins can be sold in various ways. The currency can be sold online to an exchange or live in person locally. These same instances work similarly to the buying process. You can sell your Bitcoin to the exchange at the current price it's being sold for. More anonymously you can sell in person or use Local Bitcoin.

Bitcoin payments are easy to make with a wallet application and addresses. You can use a standard desktop or smartphone to transact with an individual, merchant and exchange. Addresses can be used in number form, in a QR code and contactless technology. Transacting with Bitcoin offers lower fees than any known remittance provider and credit card service. No bank, no state, no third party can offer this low amount of fees.

Why trust bitcoin?
Bitcoin is a network operating by the three foundational principles of technological freedom: decentralization, open source code, and true peer-to-peer technology. Bitcoin’s trust is based on the subjective valuations of human faith in mathematical algorithms, encryption and numbers. With the three pillars of technological principles Bitcoin’s blockchain is a peer-reviewed system of integrity.

Is bitcoin anonymous?
Participants in Bitcoin transactions are identified by public addresses – those are the long strings of around 30 characters you see in a person’s Bitcoin address. For every transaction, the sending and receiving addresses are publicly-viewable.

Since these numbers are virtually incomprehensible, difficult to remember without a computer and don’t contain a person’s name or identifying information, it is often claimed that Bitcoin is an “anonymous currency”. This is also often used as an argument to attack Bitcoin as a currency for example like with illegal transactions.

But it’s not as simple as that. If you publish your address anywhere, it can be linked to your real-life identity. Even if you don’t publish it, simply re-using the same address many times can show a pattern that an analyst with basic skills could link to your identity by looking at transaction times, amounts and regularity – and connecting it to other data sources like receipts, exchanges, and shipped items.

It’s recommended for privacy and security that you use a new address for every single transaction, and most modern wallet software is designed to do just that. But even though this increases the amount of effort and skill required to uncover your identity, it doesn’t make you 100% anonymous. Freely available blockchain explorers and analytical tools have been used to link addresses with only single transactions to other addresses, forming a chain or pattern that eventually reveals its owner. These have been useful in investigating cases of theft at companies like Mt. Gox and Bitcoinica, but can potentially be used to identify anyone.

Due to all of this, it’s more accurate to say Bitcoin is “pseudonymous” and not anonymous. Think of it as a less memorable email address or online handle. Even if it’s not your real name, someone out there can potentially find out who the real person behind the pseudonym is.

There are ways to make Bitcoin more private, but they come with risks. One is to use a “mixer” or “tumbler” which effectively takes your bitcoins and moves them around between a confusing array of addresses until it’s virtually impossible to trace. But do you trust the mixing service to spit your money out the other end, especially since most of them are run by anonymous entities themselves? Usually they do, sometimes they don’t.

Another way is to trade Bitcoin for a digital currency designed to have greater anonymity, like Monero or DASH – effectively making your own mixer. Trade Bitcoin for the other currency, perform one or more transactions to break the link, and trade back into Bitcoin. These transactions increase the complexity, though, and probably require an online exchange, which increases the potential to identify users. Price volatility of all digital currencies may affect how much comes out the other end. And finally – like mixers – if the destination Bitcoin address is one that can be linked to you somehow, the entire process has been pointless.

“Blockchain forensics” is a growing industry with increasing levels of expertise and tool technology. The Bitcoin blockchain is public and permanent record. Your current OPSEC (Operational Security) may beat all methods of investigation available now, but will it stand up to scrutiny in 30 years’ time? How likely is anyone to look? If private transactions are something you care strongly about your operational security should stay as ahead of the curve as possible.

What can bitcoin do?
The Bitcoin protocol can change the financial landscape we see today. The protocol can act as a currency, voting mechanism, global identification and reputation application, a micro-tipper, crowdfunding platform, initiate trusts, wills and contracts, decentralized domain names, future markets, and basically everything the financial system of today can handle plus so much more. The currency application is just the beginning of this evolution of world's finances.

What happens if I lose my bitcoins?
Unfortunately, since unique private keys are associated with individual Bitcoin wallets, if the keys are lost, there is ultimately no way to retrieve that key without a passcode seed or other retrieval system; and that key is required to spend those coins. However, most modern wallets have wallet and key backups that you can build prior to storing money. This will allow you to create a new private key so that you may restore your private key on a new wallet if lost.

Who is in charge of bitcoin?
Nobody is "in charge" of Bitcoin – at least in the sense that Bitcoin is not a company or organization, has no governing body and no organizational structure. Bitcoin is simply a software protocol, like HTTP (aka the Internet and SMTP (aka email). This has been the case since Bitcoin’s creator, the person (or persons) calling themselves Satoshi Nakamoto, released their creation into the wild in 2009. There are, however, certain groups who can exert influence over the way Bitcoin functions through various means. Again, though, there are no individuals who can claim to speak for these groups and they contain a plethora of opinions and incentives within. Examples of such groups are:

Developers: These are the people who write and maintain the software the Bitcoin network runs on. Although Satoshi Nakamoto released the first version of Bitcoin himself in 2009, the code has since been re-written and updated by subsequent programmers. The developers choose what updates to make to the protocol, and consider ways it can be improved.

Miners: These are the people (and companies) that own the machines that generate new bitcoins and keep the network secure by validating transactions. As a result, they have the power to "vote" with their hardware and choose which Bitcoin software to support. Developers may create and release radical revisions to the Bitcoin protocol, but they'll have no effect unless the Bitcoin miners choose to adopt them.

Users: That's you. At the end of the day, if regular users decide Bitcoin no longer fulfils their needs, then it will have no value. You can see the user effect in action just by looking at alternative cryptocurrencies collectively known as ‘altcoins' – there are currently about 700 different altcoins of varying degrees of popularity. They have risen and fallen in favor as users decided whether to buy, hold, sell, or simply abandon. Merchants have made individual decisions as to whether to accept them as payment or not. Bitcoin faces the same market conditions, and there's no shortage of new projects claiming their protocol is superior. So far none have knocked Bitcoin from its position as the most popular cryptocurrency, but there's no guarantee this will always be the case. Large holders, venture capitalists and influential figures in the "Bitcoin community" could also affect Bitcoin's future path, though their influence is less direct. And again, there is rarely a consensus of vision among them.

What is a bitcoin wallet?
If you already know and want to see Bitcoin.com’s wallet, click here.

Like the name suggests, a Bitcoin wallet is an application that stores, sends and receives bitcoins. You can think of it like you would a leather wallet full of physical cash, and basically that’s all you need to use Bitcoin.

The most common wallets are smartphone-based, and use the device’s camera to scan QR codes to save the user from needing to copy/paste long Bitcoin addresses. Other people have desktop versions or use browser-based wallets. To the end user the interface is similar, though the way they function and handle private keys (the ‘key’ which allow you to spend your bitcoins) and user privacy can be very different.

Some apps have features that add value to your Bitcoin-using experience, like location-based Bitcoin business guides, links to exchanges to trade in and out of fiat currencies, more secure vault storage, or the ability to hold digital tokens other than just Bitcoin, such as any number of the many altcoins on offer.

Some wallets have central servers, meaning users have to create accounts with a login name (usually an email address) and password. These are less private and (if login info and keys are not secured properly) may be vulnerable to hackers. On the upside, when a centralized wallet is used if a user forgets their password it’s usually recoverable.

Other wallets store all information and private keys on the device itself, some of which generate wallet keys from a single “seed” phrase of about 12 words. If a user remembers the seed phrase, then the wallet can be restored elsewhere if the device is lost or broken. On the downside, if you forget that seed phrase the wallet can’t be recovered.

Apart from smartphone/desktop apps you can also buy specialized hardware devices to keep your keys completely offline, or even print a wallet on paper to keep them as safe from hackers as possible. These are the best options for users holding large amounts of Bitcoin.

Bitcoin users now have a wide selection of wallets to choose from and features have improved vastly over the past couple of years. But with more choice comes the need for more caution: fraudulent Bitcoin wallets have begun to appear that mimic the look of popular wallets, but are actually malware that steals bitcoins. Be very careful the wallet you’re installing is the real one.

Why does the bitcoin price move so much?
Until Bitcoin becomes the dominant currency for payments around the world, it will be more popular among traders and price speculators. As a result, the price is subject to the market forces of supply and demand which, at this point in time, goes hand in hand with the trends and whims of speculators – as a result, the price can move suddenly and sharply up or down in response to news events.

As a rule of thumb: if a piece of news makes Bitcoin more likely to be widely adopted, the price rises. If it places extra hurdles towards mass adoption, the price will fall.

You can track all the latest Bitcoin price movements in real time with Bitcoin.com’s data charts, and convert the price to your local currency with our instant Price Converter.

These events may be based on issues affecting the Bitcoin world only – such as a large scale hack affecting a key Bitcoin exchange, wallet or essential software which causes the price to dip. This happened after the Mt. Gox meltdown in 2014 and thefts at Bitstamp and Bitfinex, plus numerous other smaller companies.

A large market such as the EU, China, Japan or US may announce new regulations either favorable or restrictive to Bitcoin, causing the price to rise or fall respectively (when the Chinese government restricted Bitcoin exchanges’ practices in 2013, the price fell from its record high). It may be an internal issue, such as a miners’ conference or meeting to decide changes to the Bitcoin protocol; the price sometimes dips if a block size or scaling consensus cannot be reached, or seems to be too far off.

News which affects the price may be only vaguely related to Bitcoin, or sometimes not at all. Dramatic economic/financial news like new tax policies, bank runs or bailouts, negative interest rates, stock market crashes, banking instability or government bankruptcies all suggest a new kind of asset class may be preferable, and the Bitcoin price rises.

The price sometimes fluctuates wildly for no apparent reason at all. Sudden crashes, massive increases and up/down volatility can happen and, even after the fact, traders debate over what may have caused it. A large price build-up may suddenly reverse when it hits a certain price level, at which point traders set limit orders and/or take profits. The inverse happens if the price drops too far.

Some have suggested Bitcoin can never be adopted as a regular currency while prices are so volatile. In truth, if there was a sudden rush to Bitcoin among the general public (maybe due to a crisis in a major fiat currency) the price would probably rise dramatically and then stabilize – especially if there was nothing to swap it for, or no reason to do so.

In the meantime, if you think you can predict the big movements then good luck on the trading exchanges! But be careful, it can also be inexplicable and unpredictable.

How can I trade bitcoin without an exchange?
There are plenty of reasons to want to trade Bitcoin for fiat and other digital tokens without an exchange.

The main one is security and trust – two of the largest Bitcoin exchanges of all time, Mt. Gox and Bitfinex, have suffered catastrophic hacks in the past and lost hundreds of thousands of their users’ BTC. Not to mention the multiple other smaller exchanges that were hacked or disappeared in mysterious circumstances.

Another is privacy – exchanges these days have similar know-your-customer (KYC) requirements to banks. All this information is kept on file and, like your funds, is at risk of theft if the exchange’s security isn’t up to scratch.

Person-to-person trading is a small but growing market, with services like Local Bitcoin facilitating individual trade deals between users. Some also use online classifieds like Craigslist or even chat groups on apps like Telegram and WeChat to indicate willingness to trade in person. Other services like BitKanhave special apps designed to introduce you to online buyers who may not be in your physical location.

Be aware that, in many jurisdictions, even trading with other individuals in a private arrangement is regulated by KYC and anti money laundering (AML) laws, meaning you could be at risk if you don’t know anything about the people you’re trading with. As such, it is important to clarify your local laws before engaging in person to person trades.

There can also be risks to your personal security from carrying large sums of cash in your pocket or Bitcoin on your device, trading with people you don’t know or trust well, trading online, and meeting in private or out-of-the-way locations. Again, it is recommended that you treat your mobile Bitcoin wallet like a regular wallet with cash in it; don’t carry more than you would be comfortable losing in case you lose your phone etc.

A third reason to trade off-exchange is volume – if you’re looking to buy or sell large amounts of Bitcoin all at once, a large trade can shift the market against you on low-liquidity exchanges.

Can I make money mining bitcoin?
Yes… and no. The days where anyone could make money mining Bitcoin with a desktop computer or GPU cards are unfortunately long gone. The total computing (or “hashing”) power of the network has risen exponentially since the introduction of application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs), or machines designed specifically to solve Bitcoin’s mining proof-of-work algorithm and nothing else.

For a brief introduction to Bitcoin mining and some basic options, see Bitcoin.com’s guide here.

It is still possible for individual miners to make some money by purchasing their own ASIC-based equipment – however, most mining takes place in large factory-like environments with hundreds of machines, in places where energy is cheap (such as China and above the Arctic Circle). And once your machine is superseded by a newer model a few months after purchase, its ability to compete on the network (and thus its earning potential) is greatly diminished, along with its resale value.

You also need to consider energy costs where you live. Bitcoin-mining ASIC machines run very hot and consume large amounts of electricity. You’ll need to subtract the costs of electricity and cooling from the profits you make.

However, if you have access to cheap electricity, don’t mind (a lot of) extra heat and you think the Bitcoin price is going to increase exponentially in future, try mining for yourself. You’ll learn a lot about how the Bitcoin network works, and the network needs more individual miners to keep it secure and decentralized. In fact, a large number of individuals mine Bitcoin to contribute back to the network in this way, as well as just for the fun of it. There’s also always the possibility, though increasingly remote, that an individual miner will mine the next block and receive the full reward for doing so.

If you still want to mine and don’t want to own or manage your own devices, various “cloud mining” companies exist. These are large operations located in data centers around the world. Users buy a share of the mining power available and receive rewards in proportion to their shares. Like all Bitcoin services there are trustworthy and untrustworthy operators, and cloud mining is subject to the same risks and price fluctuations as managing your own equipment – so be sure to do your research and ask questions before parting with any money.

What can you buy with bitcoin?
You can purchase just about anything with bitcoins, from goods like clothing, electronics, food and art to handmade crafts. Bitcoin can also be used to purchase large items like cars, real estate, and investment vehicles such as precious metals. By using Purse.io users can buy just about anything from Amazon and get a discount of up to 20% just by using Bitcoin. Additionally, many merchants who accept Bitcoin also give discounts for people who pay with the digital currency.

For merchants that don't accept Bitcoin, there's still a way to use your cryptocurrency to purchase the items you’re interested in by using a Bitcoin debit card. Bitcoin.com has a list of Bitcoin debit card companies to choose from; some cards can only be issued to certain countries, and all have varying fees so be sure to read up on your options in order to choose the best card for you.

What is a bitcoin address?
A Bitcoin address is a long string of 27 - 34 numbers and letters that acts similarly to an email address. The address enables the Bitcoin blockchain to recognize when bitcoins are sent and received. These addresses can be used by anybody, from single individuals to businesses to multiple people accessing the one address if desired. It is also considered more secure not to re-use addresses but rather to use a unique address every time you send and receive bitcoins. This increases the privacy of your transactions to a degree and helps in avoiding public tracking of your funds.

How do bitcoin transactions work?
Bitcoin transactions are composed of an amount, an input (sending address), an output (receiving address) and private keys (the keys which allow you to spend your bitcoins). A user simply enters a receiving address and if the person possesses the private key associated with the bitcoins they are trying to spend the transaction is sent and verified with the help of miners confirming blocks of exchanges (transactions) within the Bitcoin blockchain. The blockchain is a database of all recorded transactions since Bitcoin’s inception. See bitcoin transactions and other data points at https://explorer.bitcoin.com.

What is a public key?
Every Bitcoin address contains both a public and a private key. The public key allows others to send bitcoins to your address, and verifies the signature of the transaction to ensure everything is in order and finalizes the transaction. The private key, on the other hand, allows you to ‘unlock’ and spend your bitcoins. It does this by signing transactions, which tells the Bitcoin network that you are indeed the owner of the address in which the bitcoins are held and that the transaction is valid. Whoever holds the private key for a Bitcoin address is able to spend the bitcoins which that address holds, so in a very fitting analogy your private key is essentially the key to the safe which is holding your bitcoins. You can also use the private key of an address to sign a message, verifying that you are the owner of the bitcoins held at any given address. This is all secured through mathematics, using asymmetric cryptography.

How to accept bitcoin payments for your store?
It is very easy for any merchant to accept Bitcoin, and most of the time preparing to add the feature to your payment services takes less than 10 minutes. Merchants can accept Bitcoin both online and at physical locations by using a merchant service payment provider like Bitpay, or even just using a simple wallet address generated on their own device. Bitcoin has significantly lower fees than PayPal, credit card companies and bank services making it far more appealing to store owners than the legacy payment card processors. The cryptocurrency is also irreversible so chargebacks are not possible, and this leaves the decision to refund fully within the hands of the store owner. Merchants can accept Bitcoin through a payment processor, through a Point-Of-Sale (POS) device or simply using their own tablet or smartphone. Adding Bitcoin as a payment method for your store can also increase your customer base for those who like to pay with cryptocurrency as well as broadening your company’s reach into the global market. Read more about merchant solutions here.

What are the fees involved?
There are fees involved with sending Bitcoin called the ‘Miner’s fee.’ Fees are paid to the miners in order for them to verify and secure Bitcoin transactions within the network.

What does "unconfirmed transaction" mean?
An unconfirmed transaction is a transaction in the network that the miners have yet to confirm. Typically, confirmations take roughly 10 minutes. However due to the increased popularity of the Bitcoin network confirmation times have increased quite a bit and can sometimes take op to an hour or more. There are solutions in the works to deal with this issue, as well as a lot of discussion within the Bitcoin community around the best way to go about it. If a transaction fails to confirm after 72 hours, the funds will be sent back to the original sender’s wallet.

Is bitcoin legal?
Bitcoin is legal in most jurisdictions in the world but there are a small number nation states that have banned its use, such as Ecuador. Wikipedia has a great guide on how Bitcoin is treated in all the countries around the world and explains regulatory policies surrounding it. Regulations vary from one border to the next so you should always research your location’s laws before participating in the network.

Who is Satoshi Nakamoto?
Satoshi Nakamoto is a pseudonym/name of a person or group of people who created the original Bitcoin client and author of the original reference white paper which details the protocol. Nakamoto participated in the network by helping with the code and mining until 2010 when he/they disappeared, never to be heard from again.

How to make a bitcoin paper wallet?
Paper wallets are a great way to keep Bitcoin offline and out of hackers’ reach. Creating paper wallets is easy but losing the paper also means the bitcoins are lost forever so be careful. Paper wallets contain both private and public keys which allow you to spend your bitcoins. The most common way that people create paper wallets is using paperwallet.bitcoin.com where users can generate a fresh new Bitcoin address and related private key. The website will ask the person to initiate some steps and are then given both public and private keys after the process. After printing a copy, you can load as much bitcoin as you want into your public QR-code. This service, however, does come with a caveat. There are any number of technical reasons why generating a private key on a machine that you don’t control is a bad idea; these range from man-in-the-middle (MITM) attacks to untrustworthy site operators, and everything in between. However, downloading the Bitaddress code and running it on your own machine offline can mitigate these risks. This can be further secured by doing so on a machine that is not (and has never been) connected to the internet.

How does the blockchain work?
The blockchain records all of the newly minted bitcoins rewarded to miners who find blocks. Blocks are sets of sent/received transactions that miners confirm for the network. As these actions take place within the Bitcoin protocol the blockchain acts as a ledger of account for all transactions undertaken within the Bitcoin network.

What is a full node?
Full nodes validate transactions within the blockchain and are voluntarily maintained by individuals, groups and organizations (such as merchants for example) all around the world and broadcast all the messages within the protocol. Full nodes add an additional layer of security for these participants within the Bitcoin network and operate in an altruistic manner meaning they work without reward. Some use cases for individuals or groups such as merchants running a full node is for detecting double-spends or for increased privacy.

What is Ethereum?
Ethereum is a decentralized smart contracts platform that is powered by a cryptocurrency called Ether. A good starting point to learn more about its workings would be the “What is Ethereum?” page.

What are Geth, Ethminer, Remix?
Geth: This is the Go implementation of an Ethereum node, and is the basis for any interactions with the Ethereum blockchain. Running this locally will allow you to easily interact with the Ethereum blockchain. Read the go-ethereum installation instructions.
Ethminer: A standalone miner. This can be used to mine or benchmark a mining set-up. It is compatible with eth, geth, and pyethereum. Check out the Mining page for more information.
Remix: The integrated development environment for DApp authoring. Quickly prototype and debug decentralised applications on the Ethereum platform. More information can be found at the Mix GitHub Page.
How can I store big files on the blockchain?
In general you do not want to store large files or pieces of data in the Ethereum blockchain because of the high cost of storage. You will need to use a third party storage solution, such as Swarm or IPFS. Swarm is an Ethereum-specific project for distributed file storage. IPFS is an non-Ethereum project which has close ties to Ethereum; it will be used independently and may be used as an added layer underlying Swarm in the future. See this Ethereum StackExchange post on the topic for more information.

Is Ethereum based on Bitcoin?
Only in the sense that it uses a blockchain, which Bitcoin pioneered. Ethereum has a separate blockchain that has several significant technical differences from Bitcoin’s blockchain. See this Ethereum StackExchange answer for a detailed explanation.

What’s the future of Ethereum?
Ethereum developers are planning a switch from a Proof-of-Work consensus model to a Proof-of-Stake consensus model in the future. They are also investigating scalability solutions and how to store secrets on the blockchain.

What’s the difference between account and “wallet contract”?
An account is your public / private key pair file that serves as your identity on the blockchain. See “account” in the glossary. A “wallet contract” is an Ethereum contract that secures your ether and identity with features such as multisignature signing and programmed deposit/withdrawal limits. A wallet contract can be easily created in the Mist Ethereum Wallet GUI client.

Are keyfiles only accessible from the computer you downloaded the client on?
No, you are welcome to export or move the keyfile, but always remember to backup your keyfiles and be aware of which computers you store your keyfile on.

How long should it take to download the blockchain?
The Ethereum blockchain is constantly growing, and is nearing 10GB as of March 2016. The amount of time it will take to download depends on the amount of peers you are able to connect to, your internet connection speed, and other factors. See the download-the-blockchain-faster section for tips on syncing the blockchain more quickly.

How do I get a list of transactions into/out of an address?
You would have to pull the transactions manually out of the blockchain to achieve this. Alternatively, you can rely on third party explorers’ API’s like Etherchain. For contract execution transactions however, you can filter the contract logs to achieve this.

Can a contract pay for its execution?
No this is not possible. The gas for the execution must be provided by the address submitting the execution request.

Can a contract call another contract?
Yes, this is possible, read about interactions between contracts.

Can a transaction be signed offline and then submitted on another online device?
Yes, you can refer to the solution from Icebox.

How to get testnet Ether?
See Test Networks.

Can a transaction be sent by a third party? i.e can transaction broadcasting be outsourced
Technically yes, but there is an important restriction as opposed to bitcoin signed transactions: in ethereum the transaction has a nonce (more precisely, each account increases a counter when sending a transaction based on how many transactions total have been sent. If 3 transactions have ever been sent from the account, the account nonce would be 3).

Can Ethereum contracts pull data using third-party APIs?
No, Ethereum contracts cannot pull data from external information sources in this way. It is however possible to push data from external sites (e.g. weather sites, stock prices) to Ethereum contracts through transactions. There are “oracle” services that are compatible with the Ethereum network that will pull/push data to the Ethereum network for a fee.

Is the content of the data and contracts sent over the Ethereum network encrypted?
Data and contracts on the Ethereum network are encoded, but not encrypted. Everyone can audit the behavior of the contracts and the data sent to them. However, you are always free to encrypt data locally before broadcasting it to the network.

Can I store secrets or passwords on the Ethereum network?
All data on Ethereum is public. It is not possible to store secrets or passwords in Ethereum contracts without it being seen by all. There is work being done to make this a possibility through code obfuscation and other techniques. A good read would be “Privacy on the Blockchain” by Vitalik Buterin.

How will Ethereum combat centralisation of mining pools?
There are two primary ways that the Ethereum PoW based consensus algorithm combats mining centralisation (Source).
_ The first is by reducing losses due to orphaned blocks, which independent miners are more likely to experience. This portion of the Ethereum mining algorithm, a technique referred to as GHOST, includes the headers only of recently orphaned blocks in return for a reduced reward to both the block producer and the includer of the (otherwise orphaned) block. These included orphans from “grandparent” or earlier blocks are frequently referred to as “uncle” blocks because the gender neutral term “ommer” isn’t widely known or understood.
_ The second way that the Ethereum PoW consensus algorithm combats mining centralisation is by its use of a Proof of Work function that is ASIC resistant. By preventing mining from becoming dominated by specially designed and produced hardware, independent miners are kept competitive or even given an advantage in terms of their profits and/or levels of hardware investment, because they can make use of readily available commodity hardware (i.e. consumer graphics cards).

How will Ethereum deal with ever increasing blockchain size?
There are many discussions around blockchain scalability. This questioned has been partially answered on this Ethereum StackExchange post and this blog post from Vitalik Buterin.

How will Ethereum ensure the network is capable of making 10,000+ transactions-per-second?
Ethereum is planning on implementing a proof-of-stake consensus protocol change during the Serenity phase of their development roadmap. More information on the likely Ethereum PoS candidate and how it may increase transactions-per-second can be found here.

What is Litecoin?
Litecoin (LTC or Ł) is a peer-to-peer cryptocurrency and open source software project released under the MIT/X11 license. Litecoin is one of the largest, oldest, and most used cryptocurrencies in the world. Similar to Bitcoin, Litecoin uses blockchain technology to process transactions.

So what's the difference? To process a block, Litecoin takes 2.5 minutes rather than Bitcoins 10 minutes. This allows for faster processing times. Litecoin also has the capability to produce a total of 84 million units, compared to Bitcoins 21 million. In addition, Litecoin uses scrypt in its proof-of-work algorithm, a sequential memory-hard function requiring asymptotically more memory than an algorithm which is not memory-hard.

Still confused? Take a look at this video!

Where can I buy Litecoin?
There are many websites and applications where you can buy and sell Litecoin, but make sure the exchange you are using is trusted and secure. Here are some exchanges that are trusted in the cryptocurrency community:

Exchange
Coinbase
Kraken
247Exchange
Bittrex
Quadrigacx
 
Where can I securely store Litecoin?
Litecoin (and other cryptocurrencies) is stored in a digital wallet. When storing Litecoin, you want to make sure you trust the place you store them. This is why it is best to store them yourself through the electrum wallet. It is highly suggested to not store your Litecoin in an exchange (such as Coinbase, Poloniex, Bittrex, etc.) because you don't control the private keys. If the exchange ever goes offline, or becomes insolvent, your Litecoin essentially disappear.

Some other options are:

Wallet
Electrum Lightweight Wallet
Official Core Wallet
LiteVault Secure Web Wallet
Paper Wallet Generator

If you're a fan of mobile devices, then Loafwallet is the wallet for you. Developed by a Litecoin community member, /u/losh11, this mobile wallet works great!

Hardware wallets are another great option, in fact, they are said to be the most secure way to store cryptocurrencies. Below is a list of the litecoin flexible hardware wallets.

Wallet
Ledger
Trezor
Keepkey

Where can I spend Litecoin?
Litecoin is now the sixth-largest true cryptocurrency by market capitalization. Websites are rapidly adopting Litecoin as a method of payment, if you would like to explore websites that accept Litecoin, head over to r/AcceptingLTC.

Here are several of our favorite merchants accepting Litecoin:

Merchant
EGifter
Cheap Air
Bitfly
All Things Luxury
AFK Apparel
Many more!

Where can I discuss Litecoin?
The Litecoin community is extremely kind and robust. There are many forums and places where you can discuss Litecoin with others who are interested in the currency. Here are the main ones:

Platform
Reddit
Litecoin Markets Subreddit
Discord
Official Forum
IRC

1. How do I buy XRP?
XRP is available for purchase on more than 60 digital asset exchanges worldwide, many of which are listed on this page. Please note that Ripple does not endorse, recommend, or make any representations with respect to the gateways and exchanges that appear on that page. Every exchange has a different process for purchasing XRP.

If you’ve already purchased XRP and have a question about your purchase, then please reach out to the exchange directly. In order to maintain healthy XRP markets, it’s a top priority for Ripple to have XRP listed on top digital asset exchanges, making it broadly accessible worldwide. Ripple has dedicated resources to the initiative so you can expect ongoing progress toward creating global liquidity.

2. What is the difference between XRP, XRP Ledger, and Ripple?
XRP is the digital asset native to XRP Ledger. The XRP Ledger is an open-source, distributed ledger. Ripple is a privately held company.

3. How many financial institutions have adopted XRP?
As of May 2018, MoneyGram, MercuryFX, IDT, Cuallix, Western Union, Cambridge Global Payments, Currencies Direct and Viamericas— eight major payment providers — have publicly announced their pilot use of XRP in payment flows through xRapid to provide liquidity solutions for their cross-border payments. Ripple has a growing pipeline of financial institutions that are also interested in using XRP in their payment flows.

4. How secure is XRP? Do I have to use exchanges?
The XRP Ledger is where XRP transactions occur and are recorded. The software that maintains the Ledger is open source and executes continually on a distributed network of servers operated by a variety of organizations. It’s an open-source code base that actively develops and maintains the ledger. Since XRP Ledger’s inception, we’ve worked to make the Ledger more resilient and resistant to a single point of failure through decentralization, a process that continues today.

To purchase XRP you must use an exchange or gateway and/or have a digital wallet. Ripple does not endorse, recommend, or make any representations with respect to gateways, exchanges, or wallets, but please see the list of exchanges that offer XRP here.

5. Is the XRP Ledger centralized?
This is a top misconception with the XRP Ledger. Centralization implies that a single entity controls the Ledger. While Ripple contributes to the open-source code of the XRP Ledger, we don’t own, control, or administer the XRP Ledger. The XRP Ledger is decentralized. If Ripple ceased to exist, the XRP Ledger would continue to exist.

Ripple has an interest in supporting the XRP Ledger for several reasons, including contributing to the longer-term strategy to encourage the use of XRP as a liquidity tool for financial institutions. Decentralization of the XRP Ledger is an ongoing process that started right at its inception. In May 2017, we publicly shared our decentralization strategy.

First, we announced plans to continue to diversify validators on the XRP Ledger, which we expanded to 55 validator nodes in July 2017. We also shared plans to add attested validators to Unique Node Lists (UNLs), and announced over the course of 2017 and 2018, for every two attested third-party validating nodes that meet the objective criteria mentioned above, we will remove one validating node operated by Ripple, until no entity operates a majority of trusted nodes on the XRP Ledger.

We believe these efforts will increase the XRP Ledger’s enterprise-grade resiliency and robustness, leading to XRP’s continued adoption as the best digital asset for payments.

6. Which wallet should I use?
Ripple does not endorse, recommend, or make any representations with respect to digital wallets. It’s advisable to always conduct your own due diligence before trusting money to any third party or third-party technology.

7. Does the price volatility of XRP impact whether financial institutions adopt xRapid?
No. Ripple has a stable cache of financial institutions that are interested in piloting xRapid. Financial institutions who use xRapid don’t need to hold XRP for an extended period of time. What’s more, XRP settles in three to five seconds, which means financial institutions are exposed to limited volatility during the course of the transaction.

8. Can Ripple freeze XRP transactions? Are they able to view or monitor transactions?
No one can freeze XRP, including Ripple. All transactions on XRP Ledger are publicly viewable.

9. Can Ripple create more XRP?
No. Ripple the company didn’t create XRP; 100 billion XRP was created before the company was formed, and after Ripple was founded, the creators of XRP gifted a substantial amount of XRP to the company.

Q1.  What is virtual currency?
 
A1.  Virtual currency is a digital representation of value, other than a representation of the U.S. dollar or a foreign currency (“real currency”), that functions as a unit of account, a store of value, and a medium of exchange.  Some virtual currencies are convertible, which means that they have an equivalent value in real currency or act as a substitute for real currency.  The IRS uses the term “virtual currency” in these FAQs to describe the various types of convertible virtual currency that are used as a medium of exchange, such as digital currency and cryptocurrency.   Regardless of the label applied, if a particular asset has the characteristics of virtual currency, it will be treated as virtual currency for Federal income tax purposes. 

Q2.  How is virtual currency treated for Federal income tax purposes?
 
A2.  Virtual currency is treated as property and general tax principles applicable to property transactions apply to transactions using virtual currency.  For more information on the tax treatment of virtual currency, see Notice 2014-21.  For more information on the tax treatment of property transactions, see Publication 544, Sales and Other Dispositions of Assets.

Q3.  What is cryptocurrency?
 
A3.  Cryptocurrency is a type of virtual currency that uses cryptography to secure transactions that are digitally recorded on a distributed ledger, such as a blockchain.  A transaction involving cryptocurrency that is recorded on a distributed ledger is referred to as an “on-chain” transaction; a transaction that is not recorded on the distributed ledger is referred to as an “off-chain” transaction.

Q4.  Will I recognize a gain or loss when I sell my virtual currency for real currency?
 
A4.  Yes.  When you sell virtual currency, you must recognize any capital gain or loss on the sale, subject to any limitations on the deductibility of capital losses.  For more information on capital assets, capital gains, and capital losses, see Publication 544, Sales and Other Dispositions of Assets.

Q5.  How do I determine if my gain or loss is a short-term or long-term capital gain or loss?
 
A5.  If you held the virtual currency for one year or less before selling or exchanging the virtual currency, then you will have a short-term capital gain or loss.  If you held the virtual currency for more than one year before selling or exchanging it, then you will have a long-term capital gain or loss.  The period during which you held the virtual currency (known as the “holding period”) begins on the day after you acquired the virtual currency and ends on the day you sell or exchange the virtual currency.  For more information on short-term and long-term capital gains and losses, see Publication 544, Sales and Other Dispositions of Assets.

Q6.  How do I calculate my gain or loss when I sell virtual currency for real currency?
 
A6.  Your gain or loss will be the difference between your adjusted basis in the virtual currency and the amount you received in exchange for the virtual currency, which you should report on your Federal income tax return in U.S. dollars.  For more information on gain or loss from sales or exchanges, see Publication 544, Sales and Other Dispositions of Assets.

Q7.  How do I determine my basis in virtual currency I purchased with real currency?
 
A7.  Your basis (also known as your “cost basis”) is the amount you spent to acquire the virtual currency, including fees, commissions and other acquisition costs in U.S. dollars.  Your adjusted basis is your basis increased by certain expenditures and decreased by certain deductions or credits in U.S. dollars.  For more information on basis, see Publication 551, Basis of Assets.

Q8.  Do I have income if I provide someone with a service and that person pays me with virtual currency?
 
A8.  Yes.  When you receive property, including virtual currency, in exchange for performing services, whether or not you perform the services as an employee, you recognize ordinary income.  For more information on compensation for services, see Publication 525, Taxable and Nontaxable Income.

Q9.  Does virtual currency received by an independent contractor for performing services constitute self-employment income?
 
A9.  Yes.  Generally, self-employment income includes all gross income derived by an individual from any trade or business carried on by the individual as other than an employee.  Consequently, the fair market value of virtual currency received for services performed as an independent contractor, measured in U.S. dollars as of the date of receipt, constitutes self-employment income and is subject to the self-employment tax.

Q10.  Does virtual currency paid by an employer as remuneration for services constitute wages for employment tax purposes?
 
A10.  Yes.  Generally, the medium in which remuneration for services is paid is immaterial to the determination of whether the remuneration constitutes wages for employment tax purposes.  Consequently, the fair market value of virtual currency paid as wages, measured in U.S. dollars at the date of receipt, is subject to Federal income tax withholding, Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) tax, and Federal Unemployment Tax Act (FUTA) tax and must be reported on Form W-2, Wage and Tax Statement.  See Publication 15 (Circular E), Employer's Tax Guide PDF, for information on the withholding, depositing, reporting, and paying of employment taxes.

Q11.  How do I calculate my income if I provide a service and receive payment in virtual currency?
 
A11.  The amount of income you must recognize is the fair market value of the virtual currency, in U.S. dollars, when received.  In an on-chain transaction you receive the virtual currency on the date and at the time the transaction is recorded on the distributed ledger.

Q12.  How do I determine my basis in virtual currency I receive for services I’ve provided?
 
A12.  If, as part of an arm’s length transaction, you provided someone with services and received virtual currency in exchange, your basis in that virtual currency is the fair market value of the virtual currency, in U.S. dollars, when the virtual currency is received.  For more information on basis, see Publication 551, Basis of Assets.

Q13.  Will I recognize a gain or loss if I pay someone with virtual currency for providing me with a service?
 
A13.  Yes.  If you pay for a service using virtual currency that you hold as a capital asset, then you have exchanged a capital asset for that service and will have a capital gain or loss.  For more information on capital gains and capital losses, see Publication 544, Sales and Other Dispositions of Assets.

Q14.  How do I calculate my gain or loss when I pay for services using virtual currency?
 
A14.  Your gain or loss is the difference between the fair market value of the services you received and your adjusted basis in the virtual currency exchanged.  For more information on gain or loss from sales or exchanges, see Publication 544, Sales and Other Dispositions of Assets.

Q15.  Will I recognize a gain or loss if I exchange my virtual currency for other property?
 
A15.  Yes.  If you exchange virtual currency held as a capital asset for other property, including for goods or for another virtual currency, you will recognize a capital gain or loss.  For more information on capital gains and capital losses, see Publication 544, Sales and Other Dispositions of Assets.

Q16.  How do I calculate my gain or loss when I exchange my virtual currency for other property?
 
A16.  Your gain or loss is the difference between the fair market value of the property you received and your adjusted basis in the virtual currency exchanged.  For more information on gain or loss from sales or exchanges, see Publication 544, Sales and Other Dispositions of Assets.

Q17.  How do I determine my basis in property I’ve received in exchange for virtual currency?
 
A17.  If, as part of an arm’s length transaction, you transferred virtual currency to someone and received other property in exchange, your basis in that property is its fair market value at the time of the exchange.  For more information on basis, see Publication 551, Basis of Assets.

Q18.  Will I recognize a gain or loss if I sell or exchange property (other than U.S. dollars) for virtual currency?
 
A18.  Yes.  If you transfer property held as a capital asset in exchange for virtual currency, you will recognize a capital gain or loss.  If you transfer property that is not a capital asset in exchange for virtual currency, you will recognize an ordinary gain or loss.  For more information on gains and losses, see Publication 544, Sales and Other Dispositions of Assets.

Q19.  How do I calculate my gain or loss when I exchange property for virtual currency?
 
A19.  Your gain or loss is the difference between the fair market value of the virtual currency when received (in general, when the transaction is recorded on the distributed ledger) and your adjusted basis in the property exchanged.  For more information on gain or loss from sales or exchanges, see Publication 544, Sales and Other Dispositions of Assets.

Q20.  How do I determine my basis in virtual currency that I have received in exchange for property?
 
A20.  If, as part of an arm’s length transaction, you transferred property to someone and received virtual currency in exchange, your basis in that virtual currency is the fair market value of the virtual currency, in U.S. dollars, when the virtual currency is received.  For more information on basis, see Publication 551, Basis of Assets.

Q21.  One of my cryptocurrencies went through a hard fork but I did not receive any new cryptocurrency.  Do I have income?
 
A21.  A hard fork occurs when a cryptocurrency undergoes a protocol change resulting in a permanent diversion from the legacy distributed ledger.  This may result in the creation of a new cryptocurrency on a new distributed ledger in addition to the legacy cryptocurrency on the legacy distributed ledger.  If your cryptocurrency went through a hard fork, but you did not receive any new cryptocurrency, whether through an airdrop (a distribution of cryptocurrency to multiple taxpayers’ distributed ledger addresses) or some other kind of transfer, you don’t have taxable income.

Q22.  One of my cryptocurrencies went through a hard fork followed by an airdrop and I received new cryptocurrency.  Do I have income?
 
A22.  If a hard fork is followed by an airdrop and you receive new cryptocurrency, you will have taxable income in the taxable year you receive that cryptocurrency.

Q23.  How do I calculate my income from cryptocurrency I received following a hard fork?
 
A23.  When you receive cryptocurrency from an airdrop following a hard fork, you will have ordinary income equal to the fair market value of the new cryptocurrency when it is received, which is when the transaction is recorded on the distributed ledger, provided you have dominion and control over the cryptocurrency so that you can transfer, sell, exchange, or otherwise dispose of the cryptocurrency.

Q24.  How do I determine my basis in cryptocurrency I received following a hard fork?
 
A24.  If you receive cryptocurrency from an airdrop following a hard fork, your basis in that cryptocurrency is equal to the amount you included in income on your Federal income tax return.  The amount included in income is the fair market value of the cryptocurrency when you received it.  You have received the cryptocurrency when you can transfer, sell, exchange, or otherwise dispose of it, which is generally the date and time the airdrop is recorded on the distributed ledger.  See Rev. Rul. 2019-24 PDF.  For more information on basis, see Publication 551, Basis of Assets.

Q25.  I received cryptocurrency through a platform for trading cryptocurrency; that is, through a cryptocurrency exchange.  How do I determine the cryptocurrency’s fair market value at the time of receipt?
 
A25.  If you receive cryptocurrency in a transaction facilitated by a cryptocurrency exchange, the value of the cryptocurrency is the amount that is recorded by the cryptocurrency exchange for that transaction in U.S. dollars.  If the transaction is facilitated by a centralized or decentralized cryptocurrency exchange but is not recorded on a distributed ledger or is otherwise an off-chain transaction, then the fair market value is the amount the cryptocurrency was trading for on the exchange at the date and time the transaction would have been recorded on the ledger if it had been an on-chain transaction.

Q26.  I received cryptocurrency in a peer-to-peer transaction or some other type of transaction that did not involve a cryptocurrency exchange.  How do I determine the cryptocurrency’s fair market value at the time of receipt?
 
A26.  If you receive cryptocurrency in a peer-to-peer transaction or some other transaction not facilitated by a cryptocurrency exchange, the fair market value of the cryptocurrency is determined as of the date and time the transaction is recorded on the distributed ledger, or would have been recorded on the ledger if it had been an on-chain transaction.  The IRS will accept as evidence of fair market value the value as determined by a cryptocurrency or blockchain explorer that analyzes worldwide indices of a cryptocurrency and calculates the value of the cryptocurrency at an exact date and time.  If you do not use an explorer value, you must establish that the value you used is an accurate representation of the cryptocurrency’s fair market value.

Q27.  I received cryptocurrency that does not have a published value in exchange for property or services.  How do I determine the cryptocurrency’s fair market value?
 
A27.  When you receive cryptocurrency in exchange for property or services, and that cryptocurrency is not traded on any cryptocurrency exchange and does not have a published value, then the fair market value of the cryptocurrency received is equal to the fair market value of the property or services exchanged for the cryptocurrency when the transaction occurs.

Q28.  When does my holding period start for cryptocurrency I receive?
 
A28.  Your holding period begins the day after it is received.  For more information on holding periods, see Publication 544, Sales and Other Dispositions of Assets.

Q29.  Do I have income when a soft fork of cryptocurrency I own occurs?
 
A29.  No.  A soft fork occurs when a distributed ledger undergoes a protocol change that does not result in a diversion of the ledger and thus does not result in the creation of a new cryptocurrency.  Because soft forks do not result in you receiving new cryptocurrency, you will be in the same position you were in prior to the soft fork, meaning that the soft fork will not result in any income to you.

Q30.  I received virtual currency as a bona fide gift.  Do I have income?
 
A30.  No.  If you receive virtual currency as a bona fide gift, you will not recognize income until you sell, exchange, or otherwise dispose of that virtual currency.  For more information about gifts, see Publication 559, Survivors, Executors, and Administrators.

Q31.  How do I determine my basis in virtual currency that I received as a bona fide gift?
 
A31.  Your basis in virtual currency received as a bona fide gift differs depending on whether you will have a gain or a loss when you sell or dispose of it.  For purposes of determining whether you have a gain, your basis is equal to the donor’s basis, plus any gift tax the donor paid on the gift.  For purposes of determining whether you have a loss, your basis is equal to the lesser of the donor’s basis or the fair market value of the virtual currency at the time you received the gift.  If you do not have any documentation to substantiate the donor’s basis, then your basis is zero.  For more information on basis of property received as a gift, see Publication 551, Basis of Assets.

Q32.  What is my holding period for virtual currency that I received as a gift?
 
A32.  Your holding period in virtual currency received as a gift includes the time that the virtual currency was held by the person from whom you received the gift.  However, if you do not have documentation substantiating that person’s holding period, then your holding period begins the day after you receive the gift.  For more information on holding periods, see Publication 544, Sales and Other Dispositions of Assets.

Q33.  If I donate virtual currency to a charity, will I have to recognize income, gain, or loss?
 
A33.  If you donate virtual currency to a charitable organization described in Internal Revenue Code Section 170(c), you will not recognize income, gain, or loss from the donation.  For more information on charitable contributions, see Publication 526, Charitable Contributions.

Q34.  How do I calculate my charitable contribution deduction when I donate virtual currency?
 
A34.  Your charitable contribution deduction is generally equal to the fair market value of the virtual currency at the time of the donation if you have held the virtual currency for more than one year.  If you have held the virtual currency for one year or less at the time of the donation, your deduction is the lesser of your basis in the virtual currency or the virtual currency’s  fair market value at the time of the contribution.  For more information on charitable contribution deductions, see Publication 526, Charitable Contributions.

Q35. When my charitable organization accepts virtual currency donations, what are my donor acknowledgment responsibilities? (12/2019)
 
A35. A charitable organization can assist a donor by providing the contemporaneous written acknowledgment that the donor must obtain if claiming a deduction of $250 or more for the virtual currency donation. See Publication 1771, Charitable Contributions Substantiation and Disclosure Requirements PDF, for more information.

A charitable organization is generally required to sign the donor’s Form 8283, Noncash Charitable Contributions, acknowledging receipt of charitable deduction property if the donor is claiming a deduction of  more than $5,000 and if the donor presents the Form 8283 to the organization for signature to substantiate the tax deduction. The signature of the donee on Form 8283 does not represent concurrence in the appraised value of the contributed property.  The signature represents acknowledgement of receipt of the property described in Form 8283 on the date specified and that the donee understands the information reporting requirements imposed by section 6050L on dispositions of the donated property (see discussion of Form 8282 in FAQ 36). See Form 8283 instructions for more information. (12/2019)

Q36. When my charitable organization accepts virtual currency donations, what are my IRS reporting requirements? (12/2019)
 
A36. A charitable organization that receives virtual currency should treat the donation as a noncash contribution. See Publication 526, Charitable Contributions, for more information. Tax-exempt charity responsibilities include the following:

Charities report non-cash contributions on a Form 990-series annual return and its associated Schedule M, if applicable. Refer to the Form 990 and Schedule M instructions for more information.
Charities must file Form 8282, Donee Information Return, if they sell, exchange or otherwise dispose of charitable deduction property (or any portion thereof) - such as the sale of virtual currency for real currency as described in FAQ #4 - within three years after the date they originally received the property and give the original donor a copy of the form. See the instructions on Form 8282 for more information. (12/2019)
Q37.  Will I have to recognize income, gain, or loss if I own multiple digital wallets, accounts, or addresses capable of holding virtual currency and transfer my virtual currency from one to another?
 
A37.  No.  If you transfer virtual currency from a wallet, address, or account belonging to you, to another wallet, address, or account that also belongs to you, then the transfer is a non-taxable event, even if you receive an information return from an exchange or platform as a result of the transfer.

Q38.  I own multiple units of one kind of virtual currency, some of which were acquired at different times and have different basis amounts.  If I sell, exchange, or otherwise dispose of some units of that virtual currency, can I choose which units are deemed sold, exchanged, or otherwise disposed of?
 
A38.  Yes.  You may choose which units of virtual currency are deemed to be sold, exchanged, or otherwise disposed of if you can specifically identify which unit or units of virtual currency are involved in the transaction and substantiate your basis in those units.

Q39.  How do I identify a specific unit of virtual currency?
 
A39.  You may identify a specific unit of virtual currency either by documenting the specific unit’s unique digital identifier such as a private key, public key, and address, or by records showing the transaction information for all units of a specific virtual currency, such as Bitcoin, held in a single account, wallet, or address.  This information must show (1) the date and time each unit was acquired, (2) your basis and the fair market value of each unit at the time it was acquired, (3) the date and time each unit was sold, exchanged, or otherwise disposed of, and (4) the fair market value of each unit when sold, exchanged, or disposed of, and the amount of money or the value of property received for each unit.

Q40.  How do I account for a sale, exchange, or other disposition of units of virtual currency if I do not specifically identify the units?
 
A40.  If you do not identify specific units of virtual currency, the units are deemed to have been sold, exchanged, or otherwise disposed of in chronological order beginning with the earliest unit of the virtual currency you purchased or acquired; that is, on a first in, first out (FIFO) basis.

Q41.  If I engage in a transaction involving virtual currency but do not receive a payee statement or information return such as a Form W-2 or Form 1099, when must I report my income, gain, or loss on my Federal income tax return?
 
A41.  You must report income, gain, or loss from all taxable transactions involving virtual currency on your Federal income tax return for the taxable year of the transaction, regardless of the amount or whether you receive a payee statement or information return.

Q42.  Where do I report my capital gain or loss from virtual currency?
 
A42.  You must report most sales and other capital transactions and calculate capital gain or loss in accordance with IRS forms and instructions, including on Form 8949, Sales and Other Dispositions of Capital Assets, and then summarize capital gains and deductible capital losses on Form 1040, Schedule D, Capital Gains and Losses.

Q43.  Where do I report my ordinary income from virtual currency?
 
A43.  You must report ordinary income from virtual currency on Form 1040, U.S. Individual Tax Return, Form 1040-SS, Form 1040-NR, or Form 1040, Schedule 1, Additional Income and Adjustments to Income PDF, as applicable.

Q44.  Where can I find more information about the tax treatment of virtual currency?
 
A44.  Information on virtual currency is available at Virtual Currencies (IRS.gov/virtual_currency).  Many questions about the tax treatment of virtual currency can be answered by referring to Notice 2014-21 PDF and Rev. Rul. 2019-24 PDF.

Q45.   What records do I need to maintain regarding my transactions in virtual currency?
 
A45. The Internal Revenue Code and regulations require taxpayers to maintain records that are sufficient to establish the  positions taken on tax returns.  You should therefore maintain, for example, records documenting receipts, sales, exchanges, or other dispositions of virtual currency and the fair market value of the virtual currency.